1. intent.. loyal to the project.

funeral begins in the project very early.. project tells in advance
I am about to die, and it is for team to decide what to do.. it is never
sudden..

successful project.
1. how many people are using it
2. how long..
when nothing is working in the project we can think of name of the project.

intent... we should never need a hero... in any project...

project success = process * technology * tools * culture

anything which is repetitive we better automate..

git... git is one such tool in the project process..

world largest manufactured thing == ideas..

simple rule in quality is aim for consistency than averages..

Those who hate this process, enjoy the project funeral early...


what is equivalent word in English
for three people working together and completeing  job == miracle.

all projects == unequal effort.. it is ok
everybody should do their job.. and not look 

people who use the words "creative, unique, challenging" are all kids
if they cant detail the process which leads to it..

any tool, you figure out in the project process where does it fit in..
git fits in change control.

git is a change control tool. (Shakespeare English --version control tool)
==ceo English === Software Configuration(change)  Management.

IT industry very liberal in using words, pathetic from a science perspective.


Cloud.
availability of resource on demand.
resource
hardware
software.

with respect to any tool... we should never go to google to find out...
tool usage..

1. imiate and then you can improve..
find out in the company how they are using it... I can have 100 brilliant
ideas pause it... let me collect context...

git setup how it is done in the company find out...

what I am expecting you to do.
1. dont byheart any commands.. relax and listen.. we should this
repeatedly.. and then get the commands... 

git  -- protocol...

server... GitHub, bitbucket or azure cloud provider.. server which
understands git protocol..

In open source.. process is the boss.
and nobody can keep gun at people head and tell I will shoot it
does not work..

hopefully people remember what is meaning of project process
Git is a tool to manage change in the project..
Git is distributed change control tool.
you can have single system without any network
and do all the change control in that system alone..
but it you want to share it with others you need some server.. which understands git mechanism...

tell my project must use git.. ==technical jargon for this.
is initialize your project with the git == my project
now is a git repository... lot of ui options available..
but in our program we want to demonstrate git thru console..
we have to use lot of commands.. these commands
you should practice and not byheart..


you have to tell username and email..
this you can do it
system level.
user level
project level.
how to do it, you got various commands..
what command..

any programmer who cannot explain his project folder
structure is a dead programmer.

1. create a folder  --demo( or anything but dont use spaces
between folder name that is a sin.. most of times in real life)
2. git bash in that folder.
3. git --version.
4. for whom it is working open the git-ado.pdf and go thru it...

how did you tell your project is going to use git for change control
git init.





c:\users\id\goldenversions\ have only softwares and not youir
programs or my programs...
c:\users\id\yourwork\html
		     javascript
		     sharedcode.
		     gitpoc
			git --version
			git init
			gitpoc folder is formally a git repository now.
			a project which can think of using git related 				features.

I hate folders and files stored in downloads or in desktop
because desktop is palce to keep shortcuts and not files.

dont trust me ask the academic 
I hate all these things ok enjoy your desktop...



1. we intalled git.
2. we checked git works.
3. we have a folder and ensured that this folder is a git repository
4. check what is settings used in git system, userlevel, projectlevel.
we can talk about project level settings also because we know
100% that our folder is a git repository.

are you in a folder which is a git repository.
before you start, please have a look at your settings...
how...
git config --list --show-origin






when there are multiple steps you want to trust your
memory my answer s no.. operate thru checklists..
this is true for git, this is true for react, this istrue for spring
this is true for deploying on cloud,....



before you start dealing with files and git protocol.

checklist 1 
1. did you check git software is working..
git --version..
2. we have a project folder, enable it for using it..
how did we do it, git init.
3. we wanted to check what all settings are done
with git currently...
so we used the git config --list --show-origin.

moral of the story is... show show patience
and see all the settings needed is done or not
before you start adding files into git...


in the git project folder create a file called a.txt
and add some content called hello.

welcome to system thinking... we need 5/5 in something
in other things we need be 1/5 atleast

once upon a time there is something DOS.

Linux should leanr how to write scripts.
those who in are dos should learn how to write batch files..






important but freaky point
when you see a message on a screen if we dont understand
read the message completely.. 


relax dont bother too much...commands
11.25 AM




create one more file called b.txt and add it to staging
area and look at the git status.






1. project is using git
2. you can create a file.
3. you can add a file.
4. you can commit.
5. git status, git log (showed a history of commits...)
6. number code.. to identify each commit
7. .gitignore file..  here you can mention
which all files, folders git should track or should not
go into the repository, this will typically will editor related
files or somethings which is not related to the project.


what to do.
a02start.txt .. whatever it is telling do it and see whether
it works in a new project folder.

checklist.
1. add
2. commit
3. status
4. log
5. .gitignore

those who have completed... check the a01setting.txt read it
and find out what commands to issue to check
only 
system settings of git
user settngs of git
project specific settings of git.





checklist.

1. accessible..
2. cloning the repository..
3. dont push anything into the repository .. not urgent we will
keep this on Monday...  (dont touch this)
4. you plan what you will do the azure boards.
topic
assignment list..

we cannot amplify misery by being disorganized..


week1 story.

1. once you clone
2  you will create a branch
3. you are going to push the branch to the repo.

folder ..
   html
   css
   bootstrap
   javascript
	1.
	2.
	3. html +css+  javscrip







phase 1

1. clone the repository ie you get repository from remote place.
2. you are going to create a branch.
3. you are going to push this branch to the remote place.
4. with that it stops..

phase 2...















arrow function.. a  way to create a functions without a name.
becuae many a times in javascript we need to create a function
and assign it to some other function..


when should a function need a name.?
when we want to call it.

if you are going to use a function which is going to called
by somebody else.. the name does not matter, so an arrao function is sufficienct.

lot of callback functions using arrow in javascript..

mnore in depth, it is better to understand what is "this" in javascript



imagine two people X and Y

X is owner of the class, he defines the class.
Y is user of the class, ie he is using the class how by creating object.
X can tell Y hey look this is way you should create the object
of the class by writing constructors..

how do you create an object of a class.
answer is open documentation and look for constructors and pick one..

if you design with an intent called X
and then do lot of fancy things on X and call it Y.
and tell people it is Y. then also X will be screaming so Y will
be screaming I am X.

javascript boss is object and function.
we can create a classes to make it look fancy.. but finally it will
boil down to object and functions...

Destructuring... important topic we want work on react without this..
so wwe will try to spend time..
if you can object.. and you want push the object properties into
individual varibles.. consider destructuring..

destructuring means..pushing objects values into individual variables
in a shortcut syntax..


promise... it wont happen now.
promise we usually use to indicate something is happening that takes time..
jargon asynchronous communication..

many a times.. not valuing collaboration , creates misery....


a promise needs a function which takes two arguments..

people who hate function assignment will be miserable in javascript.


promise needs a function which takes two arguments
these two arguments are also functions.

new Promise(f1);

function f1(x,y)
{

}

function x()
{

}

function y()
{
}




a promise does something, it takes input
as a function which takes two functions let us call it as x and y.
inside the promise, if you feel you succeeded you will call x
if you feel you failed you must call y.


how to show I am stupid person there are many ways. one way
is to tell who created the promise I, who is using the promise I..

promise is used to indicate something we are doing is taking 
time , after it is done we need feedback.. promise tells give
me two functions one function to call if I succeed and one
function to call if I call fail.

recognize a stupid program
1. creating the promise
2. using the promise
is done by the same person...

if will see a promise based program.
observe two things..

1. who has created the promise
2. who is using the promise
it will always be different person... nO it is same person
program will look stupid..



fetch(contactsomeserver).then(functionx).catch(functiony);

this will work because fetch internally uses a promise...
function x will get called if you  it is success
function y will get called if it is a failure..

in http how do you know things succeeded or failed..
technical answer..
always responses comes with status codes...
status code is 2xx it means it success.
status code comes with 4xx, it means misery because of caller..
status code comes with 5xx, it means server has created some entertainment.

people who tell I dont like theory will create misery for themselves
by being life long busy with practicals...



JSOn
expand JSON -- JavaScript Object Notation.

what is json?
json is a standard to represent a variable..

let i ={a:3}
i want to represent any variable in a standard taht every programming
language agrees to that standard would be a json...

you can contact the server and pass things and get some data...
via javascript the way to do it by using fetch
fetchn internallyuses promise.. that means you will not get data 
immediately eventually you get data.. 

eventually you get data is called as asynchronous..

1. javascript you an write a class.
2. style of coding which is important in projects destructuring and ..
3. promise... creation should be done by X and usage should be done by y
4. fetch is a promise... 
5. json is a standard for representing variables.
if you have a variable represented in json format, it can be converted
into variable of any language...
6. fancy dress for fetch usage.. make asynchronous thing look 
as though it is sycnrhous..

1. promise, then comes await.. async

in any programming language, if we dont know how to write things
in multiple files and link them we dont know programming language
we should know modules..

trying to use module in the html while you are referring to js
files which use other js files

dont expect your project to refer to one js file
that js file could inturn refer to multiple js files..
that means we need to know what is module.


1. you focus on writing azure boards..
2. clone the repository.
3. create the branch in the repository with the name.
4. change to that folder..
5. create a new branch... with naming convention
6. switch to that branch..
4. copy all your assignment files into the folder
5. please dont push this to azure thing, we will review it..
6. we can push it.. we will be pushing the branch to that repo
and raising a pull request.. (hey Ihave done the job see whether
you want to integrate with the main thing...)


telescope is... we are heading towards a world
where all of us need to be good code reviewers..
code is generated from multiple sources
ownership is ours..



1. you have cloned it
2. you have created a branch switched to that branch
3. you have dumped your assingments there..
4. dont push dont push, we will review first..

for most important assingments i want to listen from view
the answer for the question how did you approach this program...

by Monday if you completed the azure boards, great going..

 summary
1. ensure bootstrap ui is ready for javascript assingments.
2. azuare board..
3. you have cloned the ado repository created and dumped your
existing asisngments..

git we  will reach 3/5 in terms of coverage eventually within next week
so relax..

what we need practically.

1 . clone
2. create a branch
3. push the branch
4. pull request.
5. find out approved and not approved.
6. next phase..
































