0. relax..process we will get used to it

what is important.. 
bad intent cannot be fixed by the greatest
process also.

new  --npm, react
active  --npm react
resolved
closed.  closed status.


board usage has just started with many
of them not adding tasks...
board usage is currently a ritual kind
of things.. we have to it match the intent..



let us keep our "intent " clean what does it mean..

1. while doing the project.

we will follow the process.
technical skills improved..
it is a team effort... I like teams englishgood
time to put that into practice..
who is good technically in the team
who is not good as of now in the team.
project success is important..
and unequal effort is the norm in eveyr project.


1. project, ensure everybody in the team knows
the details and know about themselves technically...

2. getting struck at multiple places at normal
what you do, are you willing to write a small program
to clarify your concept..

3. when there are multiple steps to do, are you 
going to trust your "memory skills" or are you going
to follow a process. my request follow a written process
and not trust your memory... 

whether good mood or bad mood I need to solve the problem
correctly that means depend on process dont depend
on this stupid thing.. called "instinct"

question imagine I am the most stupid person in your team
how do you ensure I also write some decent quality code..

ok that ends my rant...



I am tired of seeing "ghosts"

ghosts people who have good intent but no details in terms
how to do things..






quick summary
1. ensure you got details for the project.. that is what happen
today at 4.00PM
2. know your team, be realistic and collect data
what is technical skills of each team member.
3. show good intent while using the azure boards..
story +tasks(description of the task make it detailed..)
4. have written document as to what will happen
in the process. entry to exit..



technical things..
all you know the Friday adventure... 5.00PM to 6.00PM

those who dont respect javascript as  new languge 
will get entertainment..

currently your team is more of a mob than a team...
informal teams have their own entertainment going on..





javascript ... I dont have data how good or bad the batch
is...this will be a real blocker for us in react...

some concepts are very important, I will use random number
to check things out..

tell what all things you know event handling?
tell me about function assignment.

remember the first point we told in javascript
we must know.. that javascript for usis a new language
and respect it like that 

why college people begin with C and think C is powerful....javascript is nothing like C it is totally
different category of a language..

There are javscript gaps which we need to fill up
as we keep going thru... how to fill up
simple dont need to write new code..

on some topics,  copy paste atleast 5 examples
from google ... and prove you understood..

remember what is your "intent"
solve customer problem or improve your technical skills..
intent is always to solve customer problems ... as a process
if my technical skill improves ok... 

people who show bad "intent" with customer deserve
misery and they will get it...





in todays world everybody wants to create a platform
and get people addicted to it... as a technical person
we should use the platform and as far as possible
not get addicted to it ,.. by generalizing our learning...

google wants to use browser or chrome

in this "noise" you should know.. that all these people
are expressing "opinions" and not facts..

remember what i told bootstrap... smae thing will apply
in react, node.. all these are opinions...
so learn them but dont get addicted to them..

I am big react fan.. better ways to be stupid than this..

what is not opinion.
1. html
2. css
3. javascript..

in the whole process of working on react, dont forget
this is just an opinion.. today itself there are other
opinions on hwo to do the same thing..

all science believing people if any.. should "generalize"
your learning... so that we can remember less.

standard computer science ghost= "There are so many
things to learn and things are changing past we shouldlearn"
this is ghost speaking..

how to upset the ghost.
ask the ghost ok in computer science. tell me in last 50 years
what all things have not changed.. let me learn that also..

Tragedy is  "IT industry" ... we have lot of English vocabulary
improvements.. those who want to be part of it. most welcome
those those dont want.. stay away.. so that you can remember
less.

kids favourite word  "original"
adults meaning of "original" copy the thing , change its
name and call it "original"

dont get carried away by opinions...
generalize your learning..

kids like arithmetic, adults like algebra..

rant...


 zero emotion on code.
it is working so what , ok go the next thing
it is not working so what... think what to know
and change..


javascript can be run outside the browser..

nodejs is javasript platform which allows us
to run javascript outside the browser.. so javascript
today is a programming language.. 

with time things are expected to improve...

when you third party libraries we need installation
in our system 
we do we need find the libraries... and how to install
mechanism in the nodejs world is use a conept called npm.

nodejs owned by a company called X
npm owned by a company called y

if you want to install some app in android
typical place is go for playstore..
what is summary

1. what is node js
2. what is npm.. ( mechanism to deploy some node libraries
on your system... registr.. you can discover. and downloand
and deploy it...


in todays world whether we need internet our softwares
need internet.. so...
it will have an opinion on how to do things. npm...

how to use npm...there will be an opinion we will have
learn it..

folder.. how to tell it is download libraries thru npm 
process

npm init, it will ask some questions..
it will create a file called package.json..
that means project now can work with npm
inside the project.json what libraires we downloaded
and versions wil be maintained...

copy change its name but tell it is original

ensure node and npm is installed...
update the path..
open command prompt and check

node --version
npm --version.
open a folder in visual code and open a terminal inside
visual code and check node --version and npm --version.

there are lot of technical places where we first
need patience and then intelligence...

what to do
1. prove nodejs
2. prove npm
is working in command prompt and visual code.
3. ensure proxy settings is enabled for npm... because
it will connect to internet and download libraries...
6. those who are done go thru the javascript pdf
on module 7. destructuring, fetch and module system.

we have node and npm working
what is next step.
create a project that uses npm and node..
how do you tell it is a project. createa  folder.
after you created a folder, you have to tell you plan
to use npm here... 

npm init -y

create a folder
npmpoc folder.
npm init -y
and see what files are created in the folder.


package.json 



come to the project  folder.
you have done npm init -y
npm install bootstrap..
content of package.json







please listen..

1. too much of unnecessary is spent because people
dont know which folder they should work on..
2. visual code you dont need to open files and folders
which are not used as of now..

folder which is superset folder.. this is not a project
this is just to open in vs code...

inside this folder we have other folders...
which may be project based.. or other things.
please relax and get your folder structure in place..
nothing should be stored c:\users\bankid.... follow
your confluence page..

0. keep your bp level normal and zero emotion on the code.
1. agile boards.. let us make it a little detailed. in terms
of tasks
2. very hard but most important ,know your team
remember being an Einstein in a stupid team is not a great
thing...
3. javascript gaps are there which wil kill up in react
we need to patch..
4. welcome to world of opinions so mistake them for facts..
npm opinion, react opinion, spring opinion...
5. setting up software.. is more of showing patience
than intelligence. so ensure you have patience while
setting up software. many company specific ways will 
be there, so show patience and learn it..
6. folder creation in a crazy way.. big sin deserves
punishment big time..in our batch we will punish them.
6.1 in visual code everytime telling open folder open folder..
another flavor of the above sin...

when we are installing packages(other people libraries)
in our code.. we can install globally or locally
wwhen in doubt install locally...  ie be conscious
when you install some package globally ...

I installed locally.. i need this library for this project
alone..

I need across projects ok globally installing is ok...

welcome to system level thingking
each and every part we should know atleast what it is doing
we dont need to be 5/5 in that.

It is understood all of us typically windows to build
our software.. code our software, but finally deployment
will happen on Linux based world, so knowing basic
things
about how software installation happens on windows and Linux
both are good skills to have..
5/5 not needed 1/5

in any company software settings should be decied at the project team level and everybody should stick with it
if each person in the project has to install software
packages be sure very soon we will have a asylum in form
of a team..





npm basics..

0. show patience to check whether software is installed
or not... includes proxy settings for softwares which
connect to internet.
1.  how to tell a project folder will use npm.
2. install packages locally or globally what does it mean..
locally project specific
globally across projects.
3. know folder structure.... 
a person who does not know his project folder structure
is unfit to call himself a technical person..

did we use bootstrap libraries last week hopefully
yes. how did we get the boostrap libraries last week?


npm install bootstrap
bootstrap was downloaded to our system
and in our html file now we are referring to that downloaded
bootstrap file. we are not getting it from CDN..

if you are getting from CDN how the link looks like
if you are getting from yoru local system thru npm....
then how it looks like.. you should be able to make it out..




making our own code work ok... make other people code
work in our project needs a little bit of "consciousness"

every folder need not be a project.
but project typically is a folder.

a01add-two-numbers.
look at folder structure look at the files
look for projet specific files..
like package.json..
node_modules
you get data probably this i a projet folder.

let us your project folder is x.
in my project a01-add-numbers, there are two files.
index.html
script.js
how do you make this work in your project.

there is a project X (which is done by Ramesh)
thee are files a.html and a.js which is working in project x.

you have project y (which is done by you)
how do you ensure a.html and a.js works in your project.

first step

freaky point
the way colleges teach ... any subject.. (any engineering)
they dont teach how to make other people code work....
that is most important in real life..


1. step copy the files.
2. look at his package.json and hisversion of bootstrap
and open your package.json  and see the version..


Favourite National Anthem of IT people.
"It was working"
so show patience... to check versions..



a07npm..
rg\a07npm\a01basic_bootstrapnode\a01add-two-numbers
take the index.html ,script.js and make it work
in your project.

those people who completed.. go thru the nodejs andjson.pdf..
dont waste time please...



ghost.. full of intent without any details..
ghost ..i like the project.. 
what does it mean..

1. know architecture what the project follows
2. you know folder structure of hte project.
3. you know what software and versions does it use
4. you know what tools the project uses and why...

just now.. you copied index.html and script. js
and tried to make it work in your project..

i will give a folder called a01-add-two-numbers
how do you make it work in youir system...


1. copy the folder where  in npm folder.. in folder
the folder where you have other project files..
visual code..

after you copied the folder. what you should do...
look at the folder structure.
you can come to that folder..

open index.html and run on server and see the output...

what is moral of the story?
1. now how to copy particular files of some other person
project and make it work in your project.
2. take some other person full project copy to your
system and make the other person project work 
in your system.


take this folder a02-two-numbers and make it work
in your system..


there are lot of experied programmers to 5 to 100 years
who have zero consciousness on the folder structure
these people will be pathetic in the project
and will create misery...


a person who does not know folder structure is unfit
to be computer person...

normal folder.  is just 
project folder... package.json. node_modules


JSON.
ok for bp kids... JavaScript Object NOtation...
this means nothing... expansion is nothing, know what it is..


what is JSON..

json is a standard for representing a variable.
the advantage with json is every programming language
understands json...

welcome to IT industry where lot of English professors
run around acting as technical people... day in, day out
chew people brain with language skills... ok...

JSON is a string ... 



how does it work...
1. some software  gives JSON  --python
this software could be written in java, python , javasript
or .net..... any language.. but it is giving json..

json is a string..

2. you want to consume it some other software which
uses a different language... .net...

since json is a standard..
we can convert the json string into an object of that language...


language object ... json
json strin ...  language object


what is json
practical answer is json is a standard for representing variables.

what do i do with it..
if i get a json string. I convert that into object 
of the language i am using..
I am using javascript so i get javascript, I am using python
i get python object....


I have javascript object or python object ... then how
to process that into a json sdtring.. why I need to give somebody else.... he will use it in his language

how will you know 

let x =jsonthing is present here..
how will you know x is a string..
console.log(typeof x)

all of keep bp level normal..
join back at 1.30PM.


so quick story .. know folder structure..super important.

1. we have done zero node js code so far..
2. we have used npm...
3.folder structure with package.json.. that means
that project folder is a project which can support
npm...
4. many a times you will see nodemodules absent in
the folder but package.json
npm install, that will go thru package json and
install the libraries that are needed for that project.
5. ability to use somebody code partially in our project
and also ability to make some other person project
completely work in our system both are important skills.
6. json... dont be vague..it is a standard to represent variables..
two practical things that you need to know in json

somebody gives you json.. convert this into your language
specific object.--x

you have language specific object, convert this into a json
string..-- y


I have something with me , I dont know whether
it is json string or javascript.. that means
youi should tell get yourself admitted to a hospital
you are in comma state..

whether we are in java or python or javascript. who cares
if you tell variable yu must know the data type and scope
of it..

in javascript in any language you will get two functions
1. convert json string to javascript object.
json.parse..

2. to convert javascript object to json string
json.stringify..   ready made functions..


most important story keep intent clean and then
everything else...in my language is the last thing...







generalize your learning
what is json
two ready made functions to know..




very important rule in project
bad news which comes early is good news.

practicals..
1. your folder structure should be correct.
nothing on desktop, nothing on the bankid folder..
2. you have to prove your project is working with my html
and my js 
3. prove my project works in your system.
rg\a07npm\a01basic_bootstrapnode\a01add-two-numbers
4. prove my project works in your system
and understand the code also this is important.
rg\a07npm\a02jsonloader
5. package 27 of node npm pdf .. ensure this assignment
works.

























 









project...