observations about their expectations from you based
on your interaction yesterday..

1.scrum board updated.
2. pushing of the code..




today random number different..
random number team wise..

intent is not there, nothing is going to helpl.
show good intent.

1. every body knows nothing goes according
to the plan , but planning is needed
because planning is for direction and not
for certainty..

planning written format, details, order of doing things
who is going to do..

nobody gets killed by having over details.. but lot of people
can get killed by underdetails..


1. ui how it looks like .
2. which part of the ui will change, will not change.
3. what all events you want to react to.
4. how the dynamic part comes to the page, from where...
5. what is going be your css 
6. what is going to be your git strategy...
7. boards... description, add the pdf name and page no
of the assignment.. which are you referring to...


who is  programmer..
programmer should have an abililty to convert English
of other person into functions and variables fitting
an architecture.

ui, you consider doing wire frames...
-----------------------------------------

-----------------------

feedback.. people are using code generating
tools which is great nothing wrong with
it but important are you understanding
what is generating... and be sure careful
about links... be consciouis b csoncious...

yesterday summary
0. to remember less, generalize your learning.
1. welcome to world of opinions dont mistake
them for facts..
2. have an idea what nodejs... javascript runtime
outside the browser.
3. what is npm.. javascript package manager...
1. assembling code.
2. compiling code.
3. packaging code.
4. deploying code
5. running the code..
6. all of you are able to install bootstrap via
npm...
7. be conscious about the folder...
8. everyday we will push the code to GitHub
irrespective of whether things are comlete or not complete..


Respect javascript as a new language.. we will
be safe that way..

secret unknown problem we have in our batch
I dont have data about your javascript skills
yet...

JSON.
1. standard for representing variables.
2. every programming will give you two functions
you have json with you, how to covnert that into
an object of that language   -- json.parse.
you have object with you, how to convert
that into a json string... json.stringify






React...
what is React...
1. javscript library for building UI.
building UI for two things.
1. web based. ( our course is going to talk bout it)
2. native applications.. anything that talks
directly to the os...

caution.. IT and computer science people
are good at renaming things and killing us
with language skills..

in REact you build components..
what is a component
a piece of code which has html, javascript and css.

think of building your page, in sections...
each section is responsible for its 
structure
dynamic behavior( dom manipoulation events)
styling..


what is basic for react.
1. do you know everytime you write a react
component which part changes, which part
does not change.. what all events you
want to react to...




how to create a react application..

there are manys to create a react application
let us stick with the company is telling...

people who are not conscious which
part changes, which part does not change
in the ui.. will be in comma state in react.

welcome to todays IT world
where 100's of things are free and everybody
has an opinion and they will scream as though
this is only way to do it.... so you
should relax..

not being sure about project folder
structure the person is unfit to be
in a aproject.

when things are not working it is showing
an error message first decency
whether we understand or not read the error message.


"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"
"opinion"







in GitHub.. read.txt present in rg\a08react01basic
1. create a folder called
reactpocs normal older.
inside folder... ensure create-react-app package
is installed globally.

2. create new react project called nrp
3. come to the folder nrp.
4. start the app npm start.
5. see in the browser whether your app is working.

every framework.
1. which layer of the architecture it fits in.
2. which language does it support.
3. what is its opinion on doing things..

react.
1. web based presentation layer.
2. javascript.
3. create components identify them with a tag.. anything
is dynamic in the web page let us get it thru props and 
state.

overall theme recognize opinion from facts..

1. we are going to create a component... 
which is a javascript function.. this function must begin
with a capital letter.
2. it will return opinionated javascript which mixes
html and javascript together.. JSX, meaning of opionated..
browswer does not understand this..
 
generalize your learning that is what we do in physics..


the function is called as component function...
1. it will have representation in the html.
2. the function will return combination of javascript + html ( jsx )
jsx is not understandable by browser.. who will understand some
react library..


old fundamental theory..
when you define a function, think who is going to call it
I cant think then dont write the function.



index.html... index.js.. index.js .. identified some section
in index.html and there it put a the component whatever we told
in index.js


react opinion all components should begin with capital letter.


if we have a class pqr in css

in css

<p class="pqr" > hello </p>

in react we cannot write class="pqr" because class is reserved
word in javascript we are writing javascript so you write
classname="some css class

you writing javscript in one file it needs to be accessible in other
file also...
so import.

college misery .. IIT  ... NMIT
colleges do a pathetic job in telling code in real life comes
in multiple files..

people who tell practicals matters who cares for theory
are road side as far science goes..
what we do in react is

1. create a component
2. use it in the app component typically.
c
App component will be the first component react wil show
by default onc...

where is app component 
index.html
how.. because of index.js.

we are nesting components...

each company wil claim theirs is the best..
as a technical person our job is not become a fan of anything
only fan .. fan of project...because customer pays...
and not technology..


name javscript is a sin.... standard is ESMA script 6..

java and javascript are totally different..

standard can keep telling 1000 things,, but our boss hates all the
1000 things so use things in the standard which the boss likes..
who is the boss? Boss is the browser.

but good news is while you write react code.. react tells hey
relax i will take care of the browser finally i will generate
code which browser understands..

nothing is changing in the page, means  a simple html
would have solved the problem we dont need react for it..
how component works..



default.
1. index.html, index.js public.
2. src.. app.js ( one default component created by react)
3. in src folder create a  new component.. follow reacts opinion..
3.1 start with new file
3.2 function with capital letter.
3.3 return one tag with other contents inside it.
3.4 export it..
4. come to app.js.. refer to the function as a tag..


create three components.

1. Oheader  -- header at work
2 Ofooter  --footer at work
3. Obody component  --body at work.
how many files.. 3 files.
export it.. look App.js in src folder for inspiration.
4. in app.js
add the three components
those who completed please go thru the 
react.pdf  and javascript programs
in last week, especially the last 5 programs which includes
fetch, promise.

folder structure is very important..
react opinion...

1. you write a javascript code
2. you have to return a javscript object which contains html
3. you must ensure this JavaScript function is available outside
the file.. in other files..

doing 1 to 3 is called writing a component.






normal folder on a topic X
subfolders will be topic specific project folders

X=react
reactpoc1 
react forms2
react state 3

project folder 
    project folder
	package.json
    package.json

this is patheti


a01hello-world-app is a project folder.
make it work in your system... 

1.a02poc-app make it work in your system..

reactpoc. (not a project folder)
    morningproject folder --this has package.json

    a02poc ... this is a project folder.
you have to show a02poc works.. in your system..

  dont open too many terminals close it...

those complete look at the code and look at react.pdf..

dynamic things in the component..

things which come from  a varible in the component.
variable value can change, can be fixed.. how.. we will think..

dynamic things in component
1. changing parts
2. event handling part..
There is a uI component called textbox , there is a variable called i.
and I want i to be related to the textbox this is called as data binding.



UI to variable and vice versa is called as data binding..


do you agree by default App component gets displayed.. true or false.

now javascript adventure has began..

passing properties to the component from the component where
we are using that component..

parent component
child component

function X()  //plarent
{
   <Y/>  //child component

}
pass infroamtion from parent component to child component
we use this word called props.. in react...
welcome to "opinion"

react tells ... you pass properties to the component
from the place where you are using the component.

you get an object..
let  x  ={ length:3, breadth:4 , height:5}
let l = x.length;
let y = x.breadth;
let {length:l,breadth:y } =x; //destructuring
means .. pushing object values into variables... very very commonly
used in react... so we must learn it..


javascript can crate entertainment just for a simple reason
no decency to respect it a new language... we dont know..
so learnit from beginning dont assume.


how can a component get dynamic thing.
1. props... parent component will pass some info to the child component.

destructuring syntax..

what is destructuring?
1. you have an array.. group of things..
pick one from it..

let x=[2,3,4]
let [y]=x;
console.log(y);

destructuring copy paste 10 programs 5 with arrays, 5 with objects
and ensure you understand the code..

what you do with you dont know... shows maturity..
when I dont know something relax keep your bp levelnormal
write a small program to clarify youir doubt on conept or syntax.


what is moral.
when you have a doubt are you willing to write a small program..
no I wont write... ok enjoy English language skills then...


in your project.

can you create a component called Rect
ensur you pass two properties to it length and breadth.
and in that REct component return
<h1> length is {...}, breadth is {...} </h1>

create a rectangular component which can take two properties..
look at DoctorName component written in a02poc project..
for inspiration if you want...






































