if we tell science Trust has zero meaning..
check..


0. agreement gets zero marks.. if you disagree most welcome
give data on the basis of which you have  taken a decision.

1. talk about react.
event handling in react.. intercomponent communication
and fill javascript gaps whereever it is.

2. some project related issues... how you plan to do it..

quick summary.
1. keep clean intent.
2. tolerate technical uncertainty... when we you get struck
are you willing  to keep your bp level normal and most important
write a small program to clarify on what you have a doubt..
3. react .. opinion.. the story is 
you have to create each ui piece like a component
component is a js file.. and it needs to available outside..
so export..
component gets eventually associated with a html like tag.
each component... we should know which part is dynamic and which part is static..


always as a programmer drill down your answer to functions and variables.
dont leave it at the jargon level..

respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.
respect javascript as a new language.

nobody can do any decent technical job if they dont tolerate
uncertainty...

for all the people who tell I hate C javascript is a way thru which
C is taking revenge on you...

one more standard college disease, assignment means only =
horrible.. passing inputs returning from function are assignments.
hopefully people understand how javascript tells give me any
thing, why.. we as a programmer must be "conscious"what we gave..
else suffer misery..

students are very bad at this.. irrespective of college.. IIT  or BIT
welcome to real life, Other person design....
when we work we should know other person design..

react component, is it our opinion or react opinion..?
a component will get props.. is our opinion or react opinion..

everytime you see  of other person.. you ask yourself
what is he trying to tell and what all thigns we pass 

every react component will get props. that is react opinion
using it or not is our opinion..

function Freak(crops)
{
return (<h1>  </h1>);

}


who cares for variable names...
data type of the variable.. 

basics of variable
1. do you know its data type
2. do you know its scope.



checklist..
1. do you know how to create a component.
and make it use its props.
2. while using the component, supply the props its values.
3. props is one way thru which you introduce dynamic thing
into the component.

people who dont know the folder structure
are in comma state..


what is props
supply some dynamic values to a component from a place
where we are using the component is called as props..


talk to child component from parent component.. do it via props.


learn to navigate the code in any editor..1/5 
welcome to systems we need in something 5/5 but in many things
atleast 1/5 and definitely not zero.

vague understanding of important concepts will make us a poor
technical person..

what is event handling..
1. change in state and notification mechanism..

two things that are always involved in events.

1. Event Source
2. Event Listener.. 


in react we are talking about state..

we are event source.

we will change a variable value and intimate react hey look things
ot changed..

react will the event listener..
thank you for letting me know...



<input type="button" onclick="f1()"/>




change in state is a simple way to tell some variable has changed.






how do we do event hanlding in the react component.
how do you change the content of a reat component.. state..
state .. dynamic part of the ocnponent wich changes..

what am i trying to do now..
"generalize youir learning.. dont succumb to syntax

Event source
1. some variable changes
2. we have to notify somebody hey look change has happened.
we do this in our component.. so our componenet is event source..

Event Listener

1. we register for event.
2. somebody has to let us when change has occurred
our component is also event listener for events like onclick, onfcu





IT industry more than technology "English speaking professors
acting like technical people sad reality"...
hopefully let us not be this...


const [heartRate, setHeartRate] = useState(72);

1. useState function is called.
2. we are passing some values to it.
3. inbuiult function in react, open documentation to read it..
if you open documentation and read it.. it will tell useState
function can be used to indicate some dynamic part withint a component..
ie which changes.. CEO word make react register for our event..

4. useState returns an array.. where the first element is the variable
second element is the function which is used by react to change the
variable..

let us sing our class anthem.
when in doubt write a small piece of working program.


kids are going to cry why.. because kids never learnt
that function also is a variable..
   function assignment..

function assignment != function calling.

good programmers need 5/5 in functions and variables.









when you see = dont read left hand side first that is basic.

x=y
understand y and then talk about x
those who talk about x directly great astrologers..






function f1()
{
return 6; //dont read in terms of value, read in terms of data type
}

what does f1 function return tell it returns a numbe.

all people who dont read code thru data types but read code
thru variable names, variable values.. pretty sorry for them...

moral of the story
are you willing to write a small program on doubts you get...
..

any changing part in the code.. go thru state.. in react..

in our component it will change, we tell tell react hey it has changed
react wil try ok let me me do something...

when ever you see state usage.. understand our component is event
source....
what did i do for the last 2 hours show you importance
of understanding javascript properly....

1. destructuring
2. importance of function assignment..
3. being clear about concept of event handling.
4. 

forget about complex things are you looking t ...function assignment
function calling, functiond efinition...
in most of cases you will see tonnes of

1. function definition and function assignment...
calling you wont see why.. we are not going to call ,react
or somebody else will be calling it.


<button onclick="f1()"/>

you have one changing part...x.
to change this x.. you will using function which setState gave you
remember second argument of setState is a function...
if you are changing x based on x. then for the function given
by setState pass another function only.. dont change directly..


1. we had a component, in which some variable changes within
the component.. heartrate.. so we had to use useState..
2. we get two things from useState..
2.1 variable.
2.2 function which will help you in changing 1.
3. we are setting up event handling functions.
4. inside that event handling functions we are calling 2.2functions..



data
1. how many react projects do you have with you as of now?
2
helloworld
a02poc

....
what to do.
1. a02poc-app project. you see the code PatientVitals component
have a look at it and understand it..

2. come to helloworld project.open the pdf page no 7.
create a folder in your src called a01assingment1... 
create all your components in this... and add that app.js
and show it works..

3. go thru the pdf..


somebody uses a terminology called "X" and we dont know...
then you should relax and tell the person hey all i know
is just a function and variable..please tell me X in context
of this...





const [message, setMessage] = useState('');
there is a changing part in my component called message
whenever i want to use this variable called message
i will depend on the function called setMessage
default value for the message is ''.

state means you are changing soem variable.. let us x..
if x value is changed based on x.. then for state function
learn to pass functions...

if x value is going to changed so something which is not based
on previous state.. then directly assing a value it is ok..
but thru the function only..

anything that changes within the component must appear as state
and not as props..


when you define a function ask who is going to call it.
I dont know then dont define the function

in most of cases now.. we are seeing.. we define function
we dont call it framework ... will call it..

interesting things should become boring that means process is working


dynamic things

1. props  from parent component
2. state  within the component.
you take a call how..


function assignment is not equivalent to function calling.


freak point..
world greatest party is hardware guys and software people..

software people will told by hardware people make things lsower
and slower so that people can buy hardware continuously...

before doing bad things.. tell good things..

in your project ensure... you are not a ghost..
ghost.. no details...

if you tell page is identified you must tell me

1. dynami parts in the page.. what will they contain.
how will get it.. state or props
2. what all events they will react to.


a02poc-aop project.. if i ask somebody to explain some
random component tomorrow hopefully people should be able to explain..

instead of creating components under src.

crate a folder in src called components.
in that folder

component\firstassingment
components\postlogin


how do you talk from child component to parent component..


1. what is react component.
2. dynamic things thru prop, state.
3. event handling how to set up
4. component communication.

whenever you see function assignment you should think of two people.

X will call Y function under some circumstance..
X wrote a function called f1
Y  will define the function and call a function of X and assign
his function
Y wrote a function f2. called f1 passed f2 and one day x will f2
written by Y.

secretly from a syntax point of view, most of you
must have observed a very interesting thing in javascriptwhat is it.. function defined inside functions... that is concept which is
important to observe..

topic intercomponent communication.

Map function in javscript..
what does map do...
1. map takes each element in the array and you can do whaterver
it returns you new array..


int does nothing in projects. project is all about objects..

in yoru project discussion can you identify objects...

learning, project working all are non deterministic..

when to give a name for a function, if you call it..
I dont call it ok why give a name to it..

style of coding understand it.. different ..
people who talk about performance should prove thru numbers
and not thru "language"




















