-1 being vague will consume lot of energy and bring frustration..
0. hopefully first week asisngments is complete. and pushed to the branch
1. react assingments prove you can complete..
2. project see what components could be common... 
3. have  a css strategy...
4. a common project which the entire team uses...

kid with 4 subjects.
1. agile.
2. project process related things.
3. react
4. java..

my paranoid things... I dont know how many people understood react
especially the inter component communication and after wards.
how many of you know useEffect.. I dont know... how many you know
fetch and axios I dont know... we will collect data..

No project suffers from over communication..
how do we resolve this issue?

it is better to write a written thing in the WhatsApp group

next week expectation is.

1. react components working. to some extent atleast.
2. wire frames complete..

is our understanding correct or need to be changed. please let us know..
"written communication is the key, talking is pathetic.. it dooes not help
in real world"

let us get  written thing...as to what we need to commit
on next week.. as far as listening skill and understanding goes..

1. process boards will be updated.
2. react components will be working to some extent not completely.

3. wire frames ready...( important or not important..)

quick summary

1. let us get a written confirmation as to what is expected
from us next week.. you can check within other teams also... 
and we will check it in our group also...

2. entire team has to have some decent knowledge in react.. 
I dont have data on it.. let us find out...

3. ensure react assingments are complete..  , 100% first week
assingments are complete for everybody i guess.

--------------------------------------------------

4th std kid

5 subjects
1. agile
2. project
3. react
4. java.
5. ....





technical person ...

1. should be fan of project.
2 and not a fan of technology...
3. you can work on n number of technologies as long as you know..
3.1 concepts dont change overnight.. syntax does.
3.2 do we have the basic skill required in all sciences.. how well
you generalize your learning..

we should learn how to know what is technical and not technical
in a paragraph...

 so called good technology is not gurantee that a company will succeed..

company to succeed must know who is it  paying customer.. I am technical
i like semicolons why are you boring with this... 


java...
1995 till today it is running well, you get java jobs in the market..
what you will observe every technology has got scope including main frames..
even today..

those who tell this technology is dead, are usually dead people speaking..
java is the boss especially in financial softwares...


today what is a reality...
1. cloud a reality today..
2. every guy wants to sell a technology.. our job as technical person

stay away from the sales pitch and look for technical things in it..
know the minus of something, when you know the plus also..






if your program is talking directly with os...
your program tells the os hey commit suicide.
will the os commit or not

technical person be careful about using adjectives... or adverbs..




you have an intermediary between os and your java compiled program



JDK .. is needed if you are going to write code and compile it
and run it..

JRE is software needed for running the java programs, but you cant
compile... the java program with jre.

JVM is part of JRE which runs your java program..

when you install jdk, you get jre also.. hence you get jvm also...

before we go to the hello world java program..

couple of common sense things. to know..

1. is software installed.
2. what tool are you going to code.
3. eternally important thing, do you know the folder  structure

jvm you are looking for java.exe file.
java compiler you are looking for javac.exe file.. in windows..

search for javac.exe in your system and see whether it is found.

know when to use patience and when to use intelligence
to get software working is more a question of patience than intelligence..

editor we are using to code java programs is IntelliJ.

whose who dont see file extensions names in your explorer
are sinners..'


checklist.

1. you have jdk17
2. when you open random command prompt type java -version
you are seeing jdk1.8.
3. IntelliJ shortcut is created on desktop.





what did we do .

1. we decided our folder structure.
2. we decided in which folder to store our java projects.

easy thing to say but hard thing to do

I want to be technical person but most important loyal to my project.



Opinions .. so you be a technical person and try to recognize
the tool opinion... but only opinion that should matter is
what we do in this boss called "Project"
IntelliJ has got an opinion
eccliplse has got an opinion
visual code has got an opinion...

IntelliJ opinion right now.. the way we did.


I am programmer I dont know my folder structure ok congrats comma
state programmer enjoy your comma state...


 in java ... as in any programming language you will write
code in multiple .java files.. 

I will write code only in one file ... college kid.. useless in project.
each file in java will have an extension called .java..
can you refer from one file to another.. by using concept called package..

in java when we tell i am running the program.
we are taking a .class file.. and giving to the jvm .. this class
must have a function called public static void main, with String array
as input... compulsory. only such a function can be executed
by the jvm to start. the java application.


when somebody is telling I am running my java program.. ( Shakespeare
ghost speaking English)

1. we have a .java file, inside that there is a public static void mainf uctnion. 
2. we have this compiled this to  .class file.
3. we are feed this .class file to the jvm.. jvm is running the main
function function.
we in java world.. be care careful.. apply the old thing.

1. when you see a function definition ask who is going to call it.
2. if you call a a function, open documentation read it..
3. variable.. look at its data type and scope..
4. if you see function assignment.. relax relax and know
function assignment means.
1.  define a function
2. assign it.
3. but I wont call it.

in java data types are categorized as primitive and non primitive..
why... because assignment meaning changes... based on primitive
or non primitive, we already saw this in javascript also..


how do you recognize java primitive variables..
data type starts with a small letter.
non primitive starts with capital letter.

String s ="hello";

byte s =4;
Integer i =3;
int k =3;

to store numbers without decimals we have


1. byte 1
2. short 2
3.int4 
4. long 8

to store decimal values

float  4 bytes
double 8 bytes



long j =4;
int i =j;//java will scream... hey how come you pushing a larger
type into smaller type..


int i =4;
long k =i;  //widening..

all looks trivial but important concepts while programming

when you want to use operator.. think what is its purpose
and how operands it takes..


IT industry skill copy X from some where, and then call X as Y
and tell Y is a great feature...

java will copy from python
python will copy from java
javascript will copy from java
java will copy from javascript

after that 100% be sure they will change names.. so show their
originality... 

for technical people... you should keep your bp level normal.

int i =4;

if( i > 2)
	hello
else if(i > 3)
        how
else
      are you

hello









for(c1)
  if( c2)
     if( c3)
	 if(c4)
            break;


for( s1; s2; s3)
	  s4

s1
while(s2)
{
	s4
	s3
}
s1
do
{
s4
s3

}(s2)




what is order of execution of for loop.
s1
s2
s4
s3
s2
s4
s3
s2
s4
until s2 becomes false.

difference between while loop and do while loop

nice engish..
while loop condition is pretested.  --before getting into the loop
test..
do while loop condition is posttested  -- you get into the loop

array
1. contiguous memeory allocation
2. fixed size..
that is enough...
all elements must be same different.. all these are English improvements..

in every language there is to generalize all the data types..
in C it is is called void ptr..

after 40 years a new programming language, it will also have
a mechanism to generalize all the types.. 

I will not open visual code.

I will give you phase1java, how will make it work..
1.I am giving a project folder.. so most important
copy project folder in your phase1 and not into your project
folder..

project folder.
	another project folder ( programmer in comma state)

never create java files in your project folder.. directly..
because we are in java... the style in java which is technically important..

you always create a package in java and create your class inside
the package..


how to recognize stupid java code..

ask him show the code go to line 1... andsee if package keyword
is there or not there, no package horrible java code..


do these things
1. create a package assignment.module1 -- pg 32 of pdf.
2. in this keep creating new classes for each of the assignment
and run it.
3. whichever project i have done you keep it in your phase 1
and dont do anything with i.

you are in java.. what is proof
1. be sure about the version you are using... 

if you are using version x to compile your code. 17.x
while running the code you must version x or higher.. and never lower.
17.x

all of you wrote decent java code.. nice English what are the details.

1. you class is in a package.
2.all your classes are public.

but we had not time to think about the project because
we are busy getting the output...architecture..


many IT technical people as well college kids are afraid of
writing new  Functions;

you should not create a new project for fun.. you should create
a new project only if you have real need... whne in doubt
dont create a project..

if you are using project called X... X has got some settings
if you create new project again you have waste time doing
these settings.. dont create new project for fun..

in java when you have a doubt always create a package..
inside that create a class whatever you have a doubt on..

architecture... keeping logic and presentation separate..


the only way to get a better decision is put time into perspective..
you will  never get single file code, the code will be split into
separate files.. why...

all real life code will be split into multiple files..

expand oops..  Object Oriented Programming software ssyste 
when Object oriented programming is not working, then we can tell oops..
here lot of ghosts are running around. in the industry...

talk about it, dont know about it... no details..
talk about oops  skipped it and then talk about class. and later on
we will talk about oops


class..and object.

those who think because we are using a class and object we are using
oops are stupid people.

what is a class.. simple project specific data type..
what is an object.. a variable of this class.


int is a data type

int i.  here is a variable of this data type


Class customer is a data type
when we create an object of this customer.

Customer obj =new Customer(...);
// int i

Customer is equivlent to int
obj is equivent to i..


freak point.
not knowing answer to question is ok
answering stupid questions is separate skill.

inside the int what i can store.
inside int we cannot store anything
only if you avariable of int you can store anything..

inside the class you have..

1. state.. variables which are non static present in the class.
2. behavior.. functions present in the class.
all these 1 and 2 will make sense only after you create an object..

all the people who can just look at aclass as project specific
data type... that is great start to understanding class.

constructor is a special function..
what is special about it..
it gets called automatically when the object is getting created..

Patient class defined person X
Patient class used person Y.
if X wants to impose some conditions on Y, he can write a constructor
in Patient class.

familiarity creates lot of logical problems for people..

functon f1()
{

}

in javascript what is default return type of function?
javascript does not care...  undefined..

what is default return type of a function in java..
java will result in a compilation error if you dont mention
return type... in java functions you must mention return type
for every function you define except constructros..


this..

1.when somebody ask about "this" dont ever touch javascript..
javascript "this" has too many meanings... but we are talking
about java.. this has only one meaning..


this.
1. you must be inside a class to talk about this.
2. inside the class there must be a non static function...
3. inside this non static function, a variable called this gets
created automatically and it will get removed once you
come out of the function.
4. this refers to the object calling the non static function.

kids inability to setup experiments always tell
show me visible proof.. this is a sign of kid.. in science..


A obj =new A();

new A() is on heap.. anything on heap does not get impacted
whether function runs or does not run..


A obj is created on the stack... 

A obj =new A();

new A() is called object
obj is called reference 

local variable.
1. variable which is specific to a function

instance variable.
variable which is specific to an object.


static variable
a variable which exists in the class.. with or without an object..


all of you who have heard the word static variable in C and c++
should never think about it in java... 













