Intent first everything else last..


quick summary

1. loyalty towards project, that means respect architecture.
2. keep things simple if intent is to apply.
3. tolerate uncertainty... remnember project is team process, and we are not 
responsible for failure or success..
4. kids hate constraints adults like constraints.




when we have uncertainty.... it means.

1. willingness to write a small program to clarify the concept or syntax
is a must..





when somebody tells http..

you should start
with request......
and end with response..

on any technical topic before reading from the freaky place, read from the official
place first.. and then go to the freaky place..

1. all of us are 20+ age now... 
2. so it is important to know thru data what is our style of learning
in case we have not.. we should find out... urgently....if possible
as part of this training..
3. Trust begins with thinking disappears..
4. stupidity can last for very long time....


web ... think of http..
browser.. request, response...
web page.. html, css, javascript... to do some logic.. other things also...




telescope --zoom out
microscope  --zoom in
misery always comes because a person has got busy doing zoom in, without doing
zoom out..


you should know drawback of doing something... what is its plus ok.. how about its minus...
ideally  you want to do everything, but we cannot do everything...

before building the website
decide which are your target devices and browsers..
what resolution youi want to support..

box elemeents and inline elements

inline elements dont introduce new line..
box elemenets introduce new line... and they can be filled with margsins, padding...

html decides the structure of hte page....
what is meaning of structure..

practically speaking only with html you cannot do anything..
you need minimum html + css to get some decent looking page.... to get dynamic behavior
you need javascript also into the party...

user friendly website..
1. no scrolling..
2. number of clicks to do anything should not be more than 3.
3. consistency...


<form action="where is form information processed" method="http mode of request">

get, post are not html terminologies..these  are http related terminology.

get .. information is sent as part of he header in http...
post, information is sent as part of the body....



https://www.cleartrip.com/flights/results



https://www.random.org/integers/?num=100&min=1&max=100&col=5&base=10&format=html&rnd=new


take  break and we will join by 3.50PM 



1. https://github.com/noteonbg/a01aXessacademy


what to do.

1. do the assignment given in page 30 of html,css and bootstrap.pdf.
2. understand the programs given 
in https://github.com/noteonbg/a01aXessacademy/tree/main/rg/a02html/sampleprograms










fight in IT industry between product vs standard..

old html story

divide your page into sections, how by using Div and span tag...

in todays world we use html semantic tags..
waht are html semantic tags..

having strong opinions without data is kind of stupidness.
be super careful with respect adjective usage if we are technical person...

what is something?
first find out what the official tries to tell and use his vocabulary..


very difficult to fight with myths.. lies are easy to deal with...

people tell if i write the programs only then I will know it....

3 programs you write
7 programs you understand written by other person, this is better way of learning..
















summary of today session

1. intent first everything else next...
2. project is first, that means we respect architecture...
how many pieces of code, why....
every architecture comes with plus and minus, it is important
to now the minus along with the plus
3. tolerate uncertainty.... because in a system, single person
cannot be success factor or failure factor.. so lower the cost
of failure...
4. if possible .... generalize your learning.. that is way
to avoid syntax misery...if you do this, you can remember less
and still be useful in any technology world..

if you dont generalize, kids favourite word will appear.
"unique, different".... all nursery kid words...


































