quick summary.

expectation 

1. all will do the assignments. ( company enforced)
2. go thru the sample programs given atleast some..  ( my preferenece
3. go thru the pdf also... (company enforced)




yesterday story.

1. show your loyalty towards project and not technology.. respect architecture
first...
2. http... only then web is there..
3. http..
request
response...
4. request and you get a web page... that means your boss is the browser.
5. challenges are knowing your zoom outs.. which browser, which devices
what resolution.....
6. html.. structure of the page.... semantic tags, main, nav, aside.. section..
form related tags...
7. in terms of "what I should do as a participant"
write some code.
understand other person code.
8. basics will keep on killing us, what to do we have to live with it.
example when we have a html page, good zoom point is to know which part
changes, which part does not change..
9. read from official sources and then come to the freaky place
mdn is the place for web...


page no 9...
1. semantic html web page...
what is reality...
you cannot make any html look decent without using CSS.
css.. what does it do. it does "decoration" for the page...

I am good at everything... is this a great statement or a stpuid statmenet
real life means unequal effort..

what is reality
we should be good at our thing and know a little bit altest about other 
thigns... doing this is called as 
"respecting the system" we should good at we do and know what other entities
do little bit atleast.


CSS is pacific ocean.. our job is to drink two spoons of water and feel happy
about it...

what is hard thing about CSS ... is making the layouts of the page...

concept is not a function of time
syntax is..

quick summary

1. css is used to decorate
2. you can have different kind of decorations depending on devices, screens.
3. syntax is selector, what decoration
4. where to write it.
at the element level
at the html file level.
separately and link to different files..
5. css box what goes into the properties.
5. display property key... to making good layouts.





slide no 35... a01basic.html...

standard myth problem... I want practicals and no theory
unlimited misery will come because of this...
science it means getting theory right...

I can keep doing practicals for 300 years and be zero in the subject..
respect theory...


what to do now.

1. open the pdf.. look at css content.
2. \a01aXessacademy\rg\a03css\sampleprograms
look at the programs.
3. page 9. try to think how the semantic web page...
a01semenaticweb.html  -- priority
a02sementicweb.html -- CSS to it...needs lot of exploration...

so in terms of assignments.


high priority
0. ensure you go thru the pdf. without fail....
1. form assignment of the pdf .. page..30
2. html, css assignment of page 9 of the pdf.
2.1 one file only with html. without any CSS.
2.2 two files or one file with html and css.

moderate priority
3. problemstatement.txt file present in the 
a01aXessacademy\rg\a03css\sampleprograms folder.
4. a01html-handbook.pdf present in a01aXessacademy\rg\a02html\sampleprograms
folder.













BootStrap...
what is it...  everything involves selling.. so as  technical person
stay away from the sales pitch and see what does it offer technically
to you...

Bootstrap is a css library... we instead of writing our own css which
we have to write... here we get ready made makeupset.. which we can consider
using...


selector

what is fundamental difference

p { some makeup }
#x  { some makeup }
.pqr { some makeup }

in this interesting this class selector why... 

1. it does not get applied automatically you must apply the class.

<p class="pqr"

I am bootstrap most of times means we are going to use classes of the boot
strap library...

if you have a feature X in language 
if you have a feature X given by the framework, which you should prefer
usually means... prefer X in the language so that you can cut down
dependency on an external thing..

bootstrap is a css library...for all practical purposes..
using boot strap means using classes of bootstrap
what is  benefit we get.

device independence
more stylish makeup if you ok... English...

in todays world you got lot of options..
tailwind

what is moral. doing zoom in, without zoom out will guarantee misery....


we are in web technology..
everything has to get downloaded from server.. browser..
if you are referring to something from a cdn.
there are many sites which will using the same, hence possibility
of file present in our system itself earlier is high..

to use bootstrap...

1. include the css file
2. include the javascript files given by the bootstrap guys..
what are those files.. we can learn it as when it needed..

using bootstrap means using bootstrap classes for our element...



anything we write only our code and not look other people code
our understanding will be poor.

if it is not a fact , it must be a OPINION

science person should be scared about opinions being potrayed as facts..
bootstrap is an opinion..
tailwind is another opionion..
so dont hang on .. as a "fan" of anything..

inside the html page, i would have used classes of bootstrap


bootstrap
1. screens according to devices, you get css classes which can you consider to use
2. we columns ...
3. what kind of tags... you get tags to format tables..
4.


moral of the story.
1. bootstrap is a css framework.
2. why we should use it.. device independence and hopefully better decoration..
3. using bootstrap means using classes of bootstrap.
4. bootstrap categorize your classes in to  layout...
various of forms, buttons, table related tags...

bootstrap.. mismatch between syntax present in slides and current version..
do the following
1. read the pdf.
2. bootstrap folder you got sample programs
3. understand it...	document each class what it does..(do it for 2 programs)
<!--  -->
/*  */
4. pg58 in the pdf , assignment try to find out how to do it with only bootstrap
and document each of the classes being used..







Bootstrap is a product or a standard?
product... 

all products secretly tell get Addicted to the product
how to get addiction have an opinion and tell this is only way to do things..
which is pathetic anyway...
always telescope ... is more important and then we can think of microscope..

we have "heard about bootstrap" and not be in position to code page 58..
for that we need to spend time on bootstrap grid system systematically



JavaScript...

we are formally going to a programming language.... so we have to 
get some basics... first..

a programmer who is not 5/5 in variables and functions should not call
himself a programmer.. who is this nearly 90% of people in the industry...

kids are afraid of attending interviews
adults are afraid of conducting interviews..

what is meaning of being good at variables and functions

function (5/5)
1define a function

1.1. who is going to call it. I dont know ok then dont define the function.
1.2. focus how are you going to tell the caller you succeeded you failed...
return type and inputs...

2call a function
2.1 usually we call a function written by other person... so dont assume
open documentation... and read it.. those who dont do will do astrology
on the code...


3. assign a function.. (this is super important concept... ) != calling a function. to pass a function as input argument to another function.
"callback"  ==  "Eve nt"






variable(5/5)
data type
scope 

why we should know data type...
becuasd only then we can decide what operations you can do...

string i ="3";
i = i *2;

String s = "Hello"-"o";
this is a compilation error... minus operation is not defined on a string.

X is a programming language even after 100 years
programmer must be 5/5 in functions and variables..  --microscope
telescope == respect architecture...

JavaScript...respect everylangauge for what it is... and learn in separately
dont assume...

javascript assume we are zero and learn it like a new language...


let x =3;
let y = x-1;

client side scripting..

1. from the server you got some file.. entire content of file is processed
on the client.

2. you reach the server, server processes and generates some dadta
and that data is given to the client... server side processing...



we have a html page..
we want to write javsacript into it why....


dyanamic behavior.
1. validation.. do some validation
2. change parts of the page ( in our html we should have used id ,, hopefully)
3. contact the server pass some data and get some processed data from the server.


runtime identification of the data type associated with the variable.
type of


object real world entity... why did i create an object answer is simple
my project demanded it..



one tragedy of college life is "dedication to only one data type called int"




IO functions will always be slow... IO operations are slow in any 

10 times printf.
if i call it time..

let i =3;
let j=4;
i =j;
i=55;
console.log(i);

let j =4
f1(i);
i=55;

function f1(i)
{

}





let i=[];
let j =i;
i[0]=23;
console.log(j[0]);

in every programming language dont take assignment operation lightly
understand what it is going to do... language can differ.


give an example of assignment happening without using =
when we pass input arguments and return from functions..

why strings are important..?
becaue we human beings like giving a name to everything...
hence strings are important

caution cuation
javascript and java have nothing in common other htan java word.


let i ="HELLO";
i.toLowerCase();
console.log(i);


in college most of times we commit this sin of calling functions
and not seeing their documentation as to what it does.. this is a big time
sin in a project.

let i =3.14;

I see a function call, open documentation what is meaning.

1. see what is purpose of function
2. what does input mean
3. what does it return.
4. how do i know function failed...

one key thing which results in technical disaster in programming
is the letter called "I"

we dont value collaboration..

function definition is done by X.
function calling is done by by Y at a particular circumstance...
so that means X should assign his function to a variable given by Y.

zoom out not knowing that functions can be passed to another functions
as variable is a big technical issue in any programming language..


Scope of a variable
1. local -- function...
2.global -- across a set of functions... anybody whose passes global
variable as input argument or return type from a function deserves a noble
prize..


const i =3;
i =4;//this wont work.. i is being reassigned..


let i =[];
i[0]=23;


cosnt i =[];
i[0]=23;

javascript summary
1. respect it a new language dont assume...
1. respect it a new language dont assume...
1. respect it a new language dont assume...
1. respect it a new language dont assume...
1. respect it a new language dont assume...
1. respect it a new language dont assume...

2. be conscious about functiosn and variables (5/5)
3. what javascript can do.
3.1 validate
3.2 change sections of the page.
3.3 contact server send some data and get some data...

3. syntax.... 
javascript is dynamically typed... you must know its type as a programmer
but you dont need to mention it in the code..






























while being busy in some framework knowing function and variable..



































































